Add 2.10.6 release notes (#9350)
PrefectHQ/prefect: RELEASE-NOTES.md

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.10.6

### Deploy many flows at once with projects
BP to add detail

### Enhancements
- Add ability for `flow_run_name` and `task_run_name` settings to accept functions — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8933
- Add pending items count to service failure exception — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9306
- Add "severity" key to JSON formatted logs for GCP compatibility — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9200
- Update orchestration rules to allow transitions from terminal states — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9152

> - Update projects to support multiple deployments — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9217

Reviewer: This one can be at the bottom of the highlight as:

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
     - Update projects to support multiple deployments — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9217

Author: Agreed

> - Add work pool filter for flows — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9308

Reviewer: - Enable filtering flows by work pool at the `/flows/filter` endpoint — [https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9308]

- Add `--tail` option to `prefect flow-run logs` CLI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9028

> - Add vue-charts dependency — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9331

Reviewer: I'm not sure this needs mentioning?

Author: Probably not. I'll remove it.

- Add component for handling the flow run graph and the accompanying selection panel — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9333

### Fixes

> - Check on the existence of flow run instead of deployment for deciding whether to show the params tab — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9293

Author: Agreed thats better

- Ensure workers only create one client while running — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9302
- Ensure services are drained on global loop shutdown — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9307
- Show logs on pending flow run pages — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9313
- Fix `flow-run logs` limit — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9314
- Fix `future.result()` and `future.wait()` calls from async contexts — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9316
- Update `QueueService.send` to wait for the item to be placed in the queue before returning — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9318
- Update `resolve_futures_to_data` and `resolve_futures_to_states` to wait for futures in the correct event loop — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9336
- Fix issue in which tasks were not called when debug mode was enabled — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9341

### Documentation

> - Fix broken links and clarify language — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9295
> - Fix rendering of cloud feature list — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9305
> - Fix social cards — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9321
> - Add tutorial for creating a worker — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9179
> - Update events page screenshot — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9349

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add tutorial for developing a new worker — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9179
- Fix social cards to enable previews when linking documentation — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9321
- Fix rendering of Prefect Server and Cloud feature list — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9305
- Fix broken links and clarify language — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9295
- Update Event Feed screenshot — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9349
```

### New Contributors
- @rsampaths16 made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8933
- @Shubhamparashar made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9028

> **All changes**: https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/compare/2.10.5...preview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**All changes**: https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/compare/2.10.5...2.10.6
```

These rules could prevent runs from executing again during manual restarts or worker rescheduling.  We now allow transitions out of terminal states unless the run is completed _and_ has a persisted result to improve our behavior during these cases.

For example, these changes enable the following behaviors:

- A task run that fails and is orchestrated again will run instead of aborting
- A task run that completes but does not persist its result will run again on flow run retry
- A flow run may be rescheduled without using the "awaiting retry" name
- A flow run that fails and is orchestrated again will run instead of aborting

See  https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9152 for details.

### Enhancements
- Add support for recursive flow calls — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9342
- Add support for concurrent runs same flow — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9342
- Add ability for `flow_run_name` and `task_run_name` settings to accept functions — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8933
- Add pending items count to service failure exception message — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9306

> - Add `"severity"` key to JSON formatted logs for GCP compatibility — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9200

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add `severity` key to JSON-formatted logs for GCP compatibility — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9200
```

- Update orchestration rules to allow transitions from terminal states — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9152
- Update projects to support multiple deployments — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9217
- Enable filtering flows by work pool at the `/flows/filter` endpoint — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9308
- Add `--tail` option to `prefect flow-run logs` CLI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9028
- Enhance UI handling of flow run graph and accompanying selection panel — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9333

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Minor enhancements to schema-generated forms (used for flow run creation, deployment editing, block configuration, notifications, and work pool job templates) and changes to the way list properties are displayed and mapped - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/1384
```

> - Add component for handling the flow run graph and the accompanying selection panel — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9333

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enhance UI handling of flow run graph and accompanying selection panel — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9333
```

### Fixes
- Ensure the Prefect UI displays actual parameters used to kick off a flow run — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9293
- Ensure workers only create one client while running — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9302
- Ensure services are drained on global loop shutdown — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9307
- Show logs on pending flow run pages — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9313
- Fix `flow-run logs --limit` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9314
- Fix `future.result()` and `future.wait()` calls from async contexts — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9316
- Update `QueueService.send` to wait for the item to be placed in the queue before returning — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9318
- Update `resolve_futures_to_data` and `resolve_futures_to_states` to wait for futures in the correct event loop — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9336
- Fix bug where tasks were not called when debug mode was enabled — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9341

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix bug where boolean values for new flow runs created through the UI were not sent if the value matched the deployment's schema default - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/1389

```

- Add pending items count to service failure exception message — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9306
- Add `severity` key to JSON-formatted logs for GCP compatibility — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9200
- Update orchestration rules to allow transitions from terminal states — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9152
- Update projects to support multiple deployments — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9217
- Enable filtering flows by work pool at the `/flows/filter` endpoint — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9308
- Add `--tail` option to `prefect flow-run logs` CLI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9028
- Enhance UI handling of flow run graph and accompanying selection panel — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9333
- Minor enhancements to schema-generated forms (used for flow run creation, deployment editing, block configuration, notifications, and work pool job templates) and changes to the way list properties are displayed and mapped - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/1384

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add results to task run page - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/1372
- Add artifacts to task run page - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9353

```

Reviewer: 🗿

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.10.6

> ### Deploy many flows at once with projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy many flows at once with Projects
```

Reviewer 3: We do not capitalize Prefect concepts afaik

Reviewer: Makes sense-- it looks like we don't consistently capitalize our highlight headings either

Deployments that are declared in a project are independent of each other and can be deployed to different work pools, on different schedules, or using different project actions. By default, deployments will use the build, pull, and push actions defined in the projects `prefect.yaml` file, but those actions can be overridden by setting build, pull, or push on a deployment declared in `deployment.yaml`. This enables patterns like different project storage methods and multiple Dockerfiles for a project.

Because the deployments are all declared in a single YAML file, you can also take advantage of YAML anchors and aliases to avoid duplication in your deployment.yaml file. This enables declaring custom projects actions once and reusing them across different deployments or using the same schedule for multiple deployments.

> 

Reviewer: To learn more about Projects, check out our documentation(link) and tutorials(link) to quickly accelerate your flow deployment process!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about Projects, check out our documentation(link) and tutorials(link) to quickly accelerate your flow deployment process! 
```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.10.6

### Deploy many flows at once with projects

> You can now declare multiple deployments for your project in the `deployment.yaml` file. When multiple deployments are declared in a project, you can deploy any number of those deployments at a time by providing the names of the deployments to the prefect deploy command. You can also deploy all the deployments in a project with the `--all` flag on the prefect deploy command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now declare multiple deployments for your project in the `deployment.yaml` file. When multiple deployments are declared in a project, you can deploy any number of those deployments at a time by providing the names of the deployments in the `prefect deploy` command. You can also deploy all the deployments in a project with the `--all` flag on the `prefect deploy` command.
```

Deployments that are declared in a project are independent of each other and can be deployed to different work pools, on different schedules, or using different project actions. By default, deployments will use the build, pull, and push actions defined in the projects `prefect.yaml` file, but those actions can be overridden by setting build, pull, or push on a deployment declared in `deployment.yaml`. This enables patterns like different project storage methods and multiple Dockerfiles for a project.

> Because the deployments are all declared in a single YAML file, you can also take advantage of YAML anchors and aliases to avoid duplication in your deployment.yaml file. This enables declaring custom projects actions once and reusing them across different deployments or using the same schedule for multiple deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the deployments are all declared in a single YAML file, you can also take advantage of YAML anchors and aliases to avoid duplication in your `deployment.yaml` file. This enables declaring custom projects actions once and reusing them across different deployments or using the same schedule for multiple deployments.
```

> To learn more about Projects, check out our documentation(link) and tutorials(link) to quickly accelerate your flow deployment process! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about Projects, check out our [documentation](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/concepts/projects/) and [tutorials](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/tutorials/projects/) to quickly accelerate your flow deployment process! 
```

See https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9217 for details.

### Improve run restart behavior

Previously, transitions out of terminal states were allowed in very specific cases:

- A task run could move from a failed/crashed/cancelled state to running if the flow run was retrying
- A flow run could move to a scheduled (awaiting retry) state

These rules could prevent runs from executing again during manual restarts or worker rescheduling.  We now allow transitions out of terminal states unless the run is completed _and_ has a persisted result to improve our behavior during these cases.

For example, these changes enable the following behaviors:

- A task run that fails and is orchestrated again will run instead of aborting
- A task run that completes but does not persist its result will run again on flow run retry
- A flow run may be rescheduled without using the "awaiting retry" name
- A flow run that fails and is orchestrated again will run instead of aborting

> See  https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9152 for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9152 for details.
```

### Enhancements
- Add support for recursive flow calls — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9342

> - Add support for concurrent runs same flow — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9342

Reviewer: #9343 is missing

> - Add support for concurrent runs same flow — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9342

Reviewer 2: From the PR that looks correct

> - Add support for concurrent runs same flow — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9342

Author: Yes, I believe there are supposed to reference the same PR

> - Add support for concurrent runs same flow — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9342

Reviewer: Okay, the above PRs should still be added

> - Add support for concurrent runs same flow — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9342

Reviewer: and possibly this one https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9355 @znicholasbrown

- Add ability for `flow_run_name` and `task_run_name` settings to accept functions — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8933
- Add pending items count to service failure exception message — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9306
- Add `severity` key to JSON-formatted logs for GCP compatibility — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9200
- Update orchestration rules to allow transitions from terminal states — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9152

> - Update projects to support multiple deployments — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9217

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We've referenced this in the highlight

- Enable filtering flows by work pool at the `/flows/filter` endpoint — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9308
- Add `--tail` option to `prefect flow-run logs` CLI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9028
- Enhance UI handling of flow run graph and accompanying selection panel — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/9333

> - Minor enhancements to schema-generated forms (used for flow run creation, deployment editing, block configuration, notifications, and work pool job templates) and changes to the way list properties are displayed and mapped — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/1384

Reviewer: What does this mean to a user? Changes in the UI?

> - Minor enhancements to schema-generated forms (used for flow run creation, deployment editing, block configuration, notifications, and work pool job templates) and changes to the way list properties are displayed and mapped — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/1384

Author: ```suggestion
- Enhance UI rendering of schema-generated forms (used for flow run creation, deployment editing, block configuration, notifications, and work pool job templates) and their values — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-ui-library/pull/1384
```
